feathers are some of the most remarkable
things ever made by an animal they are
gorgeous in their complexity delicate in
their construction and yet strong enough
to hold a bird thousands of feet in the
air like all things in nature feathers
evolved over millions of years into
their modern form it could be hard to
imagine how this could have happened
after all what did the intermediate
forms look like what good is half a
winged force tuned with half feathers
thanks to science we now know that birds
are living dinosaurs you can see the
kinship in their skeletons certain
dinosaurs share some anatomical details
with Birds found in no other animals
such as wishbones and in the late 1990s
paleontologists started digging up some
compelling support for that idea
dinosaurs with bits of feathers still
preserved on their bodies since then
scientists have found dozens of species
of dinosaurs with remnants of feathers
some were small as pigeons and some were
the size of a school bus if you look at
how they're related on a family tree the
evolution of feathers doesn't seem quite
so impossible the most distant feathered
relatives of birds had straight feathers
that looked like wires then these wires
split apart producing simple branches in
many dinosaur lineages these simple
feathers evolved into more intricate
ones including some that we see today on
birds at the same time the feathers
spread across the bodies of dinosaurs
turning from sparse patches of fuzz into
dense plumage which even extended down
to their legs a few fossils even
preserved some of the molecules that
give feathers color they reveal a
beautiful range of colors glossy dark
plumage reminiscent of crows alternating
stripes of black and white or splashes
of bright red some dinosaurs had high
crests on their heads and others had
long dramatic tail feathers now none of
these dinosaurs could use their feathers
to fly their arms were too short and the
rest of their bodies were far too heavy
but birds don't just use feathers to fly
a
uses feathers to blend in perfectly
with its forest backdrop an ostrich
stretches its wings over its nest to
shade its young a peacock displays as
magnificent tail feathers to attract P
hens feathers could have served these
functions for dinosaurs too exactly how
feathered dinosaurs took flight still a
bit of a mystery but if a small
feathered dinosaur flapped its arms as
it ran up an incline its feathers would
have provided extra lift to help it run
faster this accident of physics might
have led to the evolution of longer
dinosaur arms which would let them run
faster even leap short distances through
the air eventually their arms stretched
out into wings only then perhaps fifty
million years after the first wiry
feathers Ewald did feathers flip those
dinosaurs into the sky
you